# Test Driven Development
V1.0: The goal of this assignment is to become familiar with Python best practices regarding test driven development and to gain experience with the matplotlib library. 

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

The following packages were used during the development of this code. Other versions may be supported, but cannot be guaranteed.

- python (version 3.7.0)
- pycodestyle (version 2.5.0)

### Installation

The following steps will help you set up the proper environment on your machine. All example commands are entered directly into terminal.

**Installing conda:**

```
cd $HOME
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -b
. $HOME/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
conda update --yes conda
conda config --add channels bioconda
echo ". $HOME/miniconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh" >> $HOME/.bashrc
```

**Creating conda environment:**

```
conda create --yes -n <your_environment>
conda install --yes python=3.7
```

**Activating conda environment:**

```
conda activate <your_environment>
```

**Installing pycodestyle:**

pycodestyle is used to ensure that all .py files adhere to the PEP8 style guidelines.

```
conda install -y pycodestyle
```

### Examples
viz.py calculates the mean and standard deviation for elements in a user-defined column of data, creates a histogram, boxplot, or combination figure, and saves the figure to a file. The following example will produce a histogram from column number 2 of the data randomly generated by gen_data.sh and save it to the file "sample_histogram.png"

```
bash gen_data.sh | python viz.py --out_file sample_histogram --col_num 1 --plot_type histogram
```

test_math.py runs several unit tests on the mean and standard deviation functions in math_lib.py to test both accuracy and proper error handling.

```
python test_math.py
```

test_viz.py runs several unit tests on the plotting functions in data_viz.py to test for the proper creation of the figure files.

```
python test_viz.py
```

## Authors

**Michael W. Chifala** - University of Colorado, Boulder, CSCI 7000: Software Engineering for Scientists


## Acknowledgments

* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Development Environment" document
* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Continuous Integration with Travis CI" document
* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Test-Driven Development" document
* Ryan Layer's CSCI 7000 "Using libraries: Matplotlib" document
* PEP8 Style Guidelines: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
* Github: PurpleBooth/README-Template.md